Okay, well, there's a special kind
of marketplace lending that is
aimed at small business,
especially retailers.
Okay, so now we're a small business and
not your consumer borrower.
So I'm talking here about lending
by companies that are called
payment aggregators, and
the biggest example of this is Square.
You've probably seen Square
when you go to a coffee shop or
other small retailer, they ring you up
on this distinctive Square hardware.
Well, okay, that Square is one of these,
but there are others.
And they have expanded
on an old idea which
is known as a merchant cash advance, okay?
And so I'm going to walk
through what this is, and
through what their special
advantage is here.
And how this has turned into a big
business, both for the payment aggregators
and also for the retailers as a big
source of funding for the retailers.
The payment aggregators like Square,
they see every sale you make,
every tip a customer makes,
every time someone uses a card.
And they can also potentially see other
payment, even the cash payments that
people make in your business, okay,
they see all that information.
Okay, and so with that level of
information about your business, and
of course, information about other
businesses in your same industry,
other businesses in
your same neighborhood.
They've got tremendous amount of data
about your future prospects, and maybe
they can also make a judgement about the
benefit that you would get from a loan.
If they were to loan you 10,000 bucks or
whatever,
they could see how you could potentially
use that to grow your business.
So once again, Big Data there,
they see every transaction you make,
they see all sorts of other
transactions in your neighborhood.
They see coffee shops just
like yours in other towns, and
they have all this information that
they can see about your business,
and that would help them think about
potentially making you a loan, okay?
And so they can make you a loan, and the
loan may take the form of okay, I'll show
up right there on your on your hardware,
your Square hardware at your business.
That okay,
we are willing to loan you 10,000 bucks.
All right, loan you 10,000 bucks.
And if we loan you 10,000 bucks you
have to repay us 11,000 bucks, okay?
So they can make that offer,
and as I say, they can see so
much information about you,
they can make a pretty advanced credit
granting decision of whether
this is a good idea.
And furthermore, and this is sort of
the beauty part from their point of view,
they've got a huge advantage over a bank.
Right, so
let's say a bank loaned you 10,000 bucks,
they give you 10,000 bucks and now you
have to pay them back 11,000 bucks.
Well, of course the bank
has to hope that you
see it as worth your
while to repay the loan.
Then once they give you the 10,000 bucks,
and
now you've got money coming in and
you have the bank loan, but
you also have your payroll, you can buy
more inventory, you can pay the rent.
Whatever it is, you have all these
expenses, the bank is just one of them.
Maybe you pay the bank,
maybe you don't, right?
So you have some discretion over when
you pay the bank and how much, okay?
So the bank has to worry about that.
So the big advantage of
the payment aggregator,
such as Square, is that all
the money that people are spending
at your store goes through them
before it gets back to you.
Every time someone uses a card
they process that payment, and
what they can do is they can take
their repayment of the loan they
made you directly out of your cash
flow before you even get it, okay?
And so what this does for you is
allows you to credibly commit to repay
the loan because yeah, they can take
it right out of your cash flow.
There's no worry there that
once you get your money,
then you're going to maybe spend
it on something else, right?
You can credibly commit that
you will repay it because hey,
they know it because they can take
it directly out of your cash flow.
So it allows a small retailer
to borrow in a way that would
be very difficult to borrow from some
external source like a bank, right?
They're borrowing directly from
the from the organization that's
processing their payments
in the first place.
Okay now, as I said, this is this is
not by itself a completely new idea,
the idea of a merchant cash advance,
where the institution processing your
payments is taking the repayment
directly out of your cash flow.
This has been around for years.
The sort of special sauce here is
this kind of big data approach,
that Square can see not just you but
people like you elsewhere.
People in your neighborhood
transacting with sort of the same
customer base,
making their other sorts of transactions,
the dry cleaners,
the Bodega, whatever it is.
They see that too, and
that helps them think about your ability
to repay the loan, and the use to which
you could put the money from the loan.
So this is a tremendous advantage, if you
look at, I keep bringing up Square because
this is just an interesting example,
Square went public just a few years ago.
People really weren't talking about
Square Capital so much at the time, but
Square Capital, that's the division
of Square that does this.
This has of course taken of now as
a big source of their revenue and
a big source of funding for
retailers in the country now.
And it's also, as I said,
called marketplace lending here,
because not only are they
making these loans.
But also they're providing this as an
opportunity to institutional investors to
front the cash that they then loan, right?
So a lot of the cash they loan is not
really their own cash, it is posted by
the institutional investors who want to
essentially buy a piece of this action.
They want to be making these
loans to these retailers.
They like the story and so they supply
the capital that then gets loaned out.
So to summarize that,
basically, this is the way
that small business is
borrowing at rates that take
advantage of the lenders'
ability to number one,
make a very informed
credit granting decision.
Based not only on the finances of
this company but companies like them.
And then number two, takes advantage
of this ability to take the cash
flow directly out of the company's
revenues and pay themselves off directly.
And that allows this small retailer,
the small bodega, the dry cleaner,
whatever it is, to borrow on terms
that probably are a lot better than
they would get if they were to go
to an external source like a bank.